Jak TypeScript ułatwi Ci życie? (#6)
Code-Poets/articles: 2019-07-17-how-does-typescript-make-your-life-easier/article.md

## How will TypeScript make your life easier?

As a novice programmer, after a long time of working with Java, I got an opportunity to return to my roots (which was JavaScript for me).
A few months ago, an applicable syntax and rules in JavaScript seemed to be intuitive and understandable.
Then I missed some functionalities and facilities that would make life easier for programmers.

> Fortunately, since that time, I have been working using TypeScript in the CodePoets company.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Fortunately, since that time, I have been working using TypeScript at Code Poets.
```

In this post, I would like to introduce TypeScript, which is a separate programming language heavily based on JavaScript.
After reading this article, you should understand the differences between JavaScript and TypeScript.

If you are not sure you want to go through this article — I'm trying to convince you that TypeScript is awesome, and here is why in a nutshell:
1. It's fully backwards-compatible with JavaScript.
2. It gives you types. Your IDE loves types.
3. But you don't have to use them if you don't want to.
4. It has constructors. It will build you a house and make you coffee.
5. You'll feel familiar reading other statically typed languages. Your skills count for more.

##### What is TypeScript?

> It’s a superset of JavaScript, created by the Microsoft company in 2012, that introduced additional functionalities and facilities.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It’s a superset of JavaScript, created by Microsoft in 2012, that introduced additional functionalities and facilities.
```

> The creators of TypeScript needed a tool that would enhance JavaScript’s weaknesses.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The creators of TypeScript needed a tool that would fix JavaScript’s weaknesses.
```

They thought that JavaScript was not suited for writing larger applications.
They noticed emerging problems related to scalability and maintenance of such programs and decided to create a new tool with functionalities missing from JavaScript.

Did they succeed?
I think so.

> As proof, I would like to highlight the fact that TypeScript is the language in which people from Google wrote Angular2.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As proof, I would like to highlight the fact that TypeScript is the language in which people from Google wrote Angular 2.
```

The fact that Google decided to use a tool built by one of its biggest competitors means that it must have some merit.

##### Static Typing
What did I miss in JavaScript compared to Java?
Above all, static typing.
Obviously, JavaScript’s syntax is more concise than Java syntax.
It hides a lot of information that is desirable from a programmer’s point of view.

Let’s be honest and answer one question.
How many times we’ve been writing code in JavaScript and wasting our time looking for information contained in our variable?
This question implies the second answer.

> How would the possession of information about the type at the start would affect our efficiency?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
How would the possession of information about the type at the start affect our efficiency?
```

> Easier code inspection, debugging, and saving time while bugs investigation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Easier code inspection, debugging, and saving time while investigating bugs.
```

That's what TypeScript will provide you with static typing.
Easier work with the code from programmer’s point of view is fundamental.
But TypeScript gives us something more.
Thanks to static typing, our IDE gains a much wider array of possibilities of static code analysis.

> Priceless help in a programmer’s work are also IDE hints, which significantly outweigh work speed and efficiency.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Priceless help in a programmer’s work are also IDE hints, which significantly improve work speed and efficiency.
```

> ##### Typing Inference

Reviewer: ```suggestion
##### Type Inference
```

But TypeScript gives us something more.
Thanks to static typing, our IDE gains a much wider array of possibilities of static code analysis.
Priceless help in a programmer’s work are also IDE hints, which significantly outweigh work speed and efficiency.

##### Typing Inference
Everything sounds good so far, right?
Static typing makes life easier but is not enough to change our habits.
What else can TypeScript give us?
Many JavaScript programmers find declaring a type for every variable and parameter to be very tedious, and they dislike languages such as Java because of it.
TypeScript is a kind of a compromise between the complete lack of static typing and the verbose syntax of statically typed languages.

TypeScript’s syntax doesn’t require a type in literally every location, thanks to typing inference.
Type inference provides us the possibility in which we don’t have to define the types: variables initialization, setting default parameter values, or determining the type returned by the function.
In the above cases, type declaration is just not necessary, because the compiler can simply determine what type exists in a given place.

##### Constructors

> Compared to Java, the existence of constructors inside the classes is really natural, which is known to novice programmers.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Compared to JavaScript, the existence of constructors inside the classes is really natural, which is known to novice programmers.
```

JavaScript constructors have a syntax and a purpose pretty different from Java’s.
Additionally, in JavaScript, methods must be added to the prototype chain and not the class directly.
Using prototypes is difficult to understand, but the object-oriented approach in TypeScript is more natural and understandable.

> JavaScript constructor serving to create new Car object:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
JavaScript constructor serving to create new `Car` object:
```

```javascript
function Car(brand, color) {
  this.age = 0;
  this.brand = brand;
  this.color = color;
}

Car.prototype.print = function print() {
  console.log(this.brand + 'color' + this.color);
}
```

TypeScript constructor inside the class:
```typescript
class Car {
  private age: number;
  private brand: string;
  private color: string;

  constructor(age: number, brand: string, color: string) {
    this.age = age;
    this.brand = brand;
    this.color = color;
  }

  print() {
    console.log(this.brand + 'color' + this.color);
  }
}
```

##### No Problems Reading Other Statically Typed Languages
Many companies abandon the distinction between frontend and backend developers.

> As a result, the teams are more flexible, because each team member can work on each part of the application separately.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As a result, the teams are more flexible, because every team member can work on every part of the application.
```

> Similarities between TypeScript and programming languages such as Java/C++ make a programmer’s work easier, because switching between two languages is less painful.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Similarities between TypeScript and programming languages such as Java/C++ make a programmer’s work easier, because switching between it and them is less painful than between it and JavaScript.
```

##### Conclusion
To sum it up, from my point of view, TypeScript enhances JavaScript with facilities from other programming languages, which makes it easier to use the structures and syntax of other languages.

With static typing, the code becomes clearer, while being safer for refactor (IDE support).

And finally, who of us, the frontend developers, would not get rid of the command `console.log()` to see what our variable contains?

> If you’re looking for something more in-depth — jump to these pages:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you’re looking for something more in-depth — take a look at these pages:
```

## Jak TypeScript ułatwi Ci życie?

> Wielu z nas miało zapewne okazję używać w swoim życiu kilku języków programowania (albo chociaż ich „liznąć”). Każdy z nich posiadał swoje wady i zalety, a wybór jednego z nich jako przewodniego wiąże się z kilkoma czynnikami (z których najważniejszym jest gust danego programisty). W tym wpisie chciałabym zaprezentować Wam TypeScript, który formalnie nie jest osobnym językiem programowania lecz pewną adaptacją JavaScritpu. Po przeczytaniu tego artykułu powinniście wiedzieć co bardziej przypadnie Wam do gustu w kontekście czystego JavaScriptu i TypeScriptu. 

Reviewer 2: Często używasz nawiasów, szczególnie na początku :)
Może napisz konkretniej, czego można się spodziewać np powinniście wiedzieć, czym się różni JavaScript od TypeScriptu. Kiedy czytam artykuł, lubię wiedzieć, o czym on konkretnie będzie :)

Jako początkującej programistce po dłuższym okresie używania Javy nadarzyła się okazja powrotu do korzeni (którymi dla mnie był język JavaScript). Jeszcze kilka miesięcy wcześniej składnia i zasady rządzące JavaScriptem wydawały mi się w miarę klarowane i łatwo przyswajalne (a przynajmniej akceptowalne w znacznej mierze). Brakowało mi niektórych funkcjonalności i udogodnień ułatwiających życie programiście i pozwalających skupić się na realnych problemach biznesowych związanych z pisanym projektem. Na szczęście po szybko zakończonym projekcie uzyskałam możliwość powrotu do świata wygodnego i jak dla mnie dużo czytelniejszego dla osoby piszącej kod. Ku mojej radości od tamtego momentu aż do teraz dane jest mi używać TypeScriptu. 

> Czym jest TypeScript? To po prostu nadzbiór języka JavaScript wprowadzający dodatkowe funkcjonalności oraz udogodnienia, które postaram się krótko przedstawić w niniejszym artykule.

Reviewer 2: Możesz jeszcze dodać, kto napisał TypeScript i w jakim celu ten język został stworzony - co sprawiło, że powstał.

> Czego brakowało mi po przesiadce z Javy do JavaScriptu? Przede wszystkim statycznego typowania. Oczywiście składnia JavaScriptu jest znacznie bardziej zwięzła niż wymienionej Javy, dzieje się to jednak kosztem utajania informacji, która z punktu widzenia programisty jest wysoce pożądana. Bądźmy wobec siebie szczerzy i odpowiedzmy na jedno pytanie. Jak często pisząc kod w JavaScript zmarnowaliśmy czas na dochodzenie, co właściwie zawiera dana zmienna? I to pytanie implikuje kolejne zapytanie. Jak na efektywność naszej pracy wpłynęłoby posiadane informacji o typie już na starcie? Łatwiejsza inspekcja kodu, debugowanie, oszczędność czasu w trakcie szukania bugów. To wszystko zapewni Wam TypeScript posiadający statyczne typowanie. Łatwiejsza praca nad kodem z punktu widzenia programisty to fundament, ale jest jeszcze inna strona medalu. Dzięki statycznemu typowaniu w TypeScripcie nasze IDE zyskuje znacznie szersze możliwości statycznej analizy kodu. Nieocenioną pomocą w kontekście efektywności pracy programisty są też podpowiedzi, które w TypeScripcie nie przyprawiają o ból głowy (co niejeden raz zdarza się podczas pracy z JavaScriptem).

Reviewer 2: Możesz zamieścić tutaj jakiś przykład np. w JS typowanie (a raczej jego brak) wygląda tak, a w TS wygląda tak.

Ja zdanie `Bądźmy wobec siebie szczerzy i odpowiedzmy na jedno pytanie...` widzę trochę inaczej: Bądźmy wobec siebie szczerzy: pisząc kod w JavaScripcie można poświęcić naprawdę dużo czasu na dochodzenie, jaką wartość zawiera dana zmienna.

Medal ma tylko dwie strony, więc może druga zamiast inna :P

Ok, brzmi nieźle? Ale „jedna jaskółka wiosny nie czyni”, a samo statyczne typowanie choć ułatwiające życie może być zbyt małym bodźcem do zmiany przyzwyczajeń. Co jeszcze może dać nam TypeScript? Wiele osób korzystających z JavaScript nie przepada za językami typu Java z powodu przewlekłej składni związanej z typami. TypeScript jest niejako kompromisem między zupełnym brakiem typowania statycznego, a rozwlekłą składnią języków statycznie typowanych. Składnia TypeScriptu nie wymaga typu dosłownie w każdym miejscu, dzięki tzw. inferencji typów. Inferencja typów zapewnia nam możliwość niedefiniowania typów w kilku przypadkach: inicjalizacja zmiennych, ustawianie domyślnych wartości parametrów czy określanie typu zwracanego przez funkcję. Po prostu w powyższych przypadkach deklaracja typu jest zbędna, gdyż kompilator wprost potrafi określić jaki typ występuje w danym miejscu.

> W językach typu Java posiadanie konstruktora w klasach jest czymś naturalnym, co każdy programista poznaje na pierwszych lekcjach programowania. Konstruktory w JavaScript? Tak są, ale ich struktura oraz używanie z punktu widzenia developera JavaScriptu znacznie różni się od tego stosowanego przez programistów Javy. TypeScript natywnie dostarcza nam konstruktory, które wspierają wstrzykiwanie zależności przez parametry konstruktora, a także są równie naturalne jak te, które znaleźć możemy w Javie. Do czego zmierzam? Wiele firm odchodzi od standardowego podziały na Frontend i Backend deweloperów. Z ich punktu widzenia jest to oszczędność pieniędzy, a także zwiększenie elastyczności teamów (każdy deweloper może pracować nad tą częścią aplikacji, której implementacja ma najwyższy priorytet). Fullstack Developerzy są bez dwóch zdań przyszłością programowania. Z punktu widzenia deweloperów TypeScript umożliwia znacznie przyjemniejszą naukę frontendu ze względu na statyczne typowanie czy konstruktory zbliżone do Javowych. 

Reviewer 2: Tutaj mogłabyś zamieścić przykład konstruktorów w Javie i w TypeScripcie - jak to wygląda, czym to się różni, żeby czytelnik miał namacalny przykład ;)

> Podsumowując z mojego punktu widzenia TypeScript niejako łączy ze sobą JavaScript i udogodnienia z innych języków programowania, co ułatwia i porządkuje wykorzystywanie struktur oraz składni znanych z innych języków. Dzięki statycznemu typowaniu kod zyskuje na czytelności jednocześnie będąc bardziej czytelny i bezpieczny w zakresie refactoringu (wsparcie IDE). I ostatecznie – kto z nas frontendowców nie pozbyłby się chętnie komendy `console.log()` w celu weryfikacji co tak właściwie jest wewnątrz zmiennych?

Reviewer 2: Ciekawy artykuł - jak na programistę stylowo napisany - tak humanistycznie :D mam tylko wrażenie, że brakuje w nim takiego poczucia, że idę w konkretnym kierunku - nie wiem, co będzie w następnym akapicie, a i styl tekstu trochę "pulsuje własnym życiem" :) 
Moja sugestia: spróbuj to uporządkować i ujednolicić tak, aby poszczególne akapity stanowiły zwartą całość :) Może poczuj się jak przewodnik muzeum - oprowadź wszystkich, opowiedz ciekawą historię, wytłumacz, pokaż eksponaty (przykłady :P ), zainteresuj nimi trochę a na końcu zapytaj, czy są jakieś pytania :P

## How will TypeScript make your life easier?

As a novice programmer, after long time working with Java, I got an opportunity to return to the roots (which was JavaScript for me).
Few months ago an applicable syntax and rules in JavaScript seemed to be intuitive and understandable.
Then I missed some functionalities and facilities that would make life easier for programmers.
Fortunately, since that time until now I have been working using TypeScript in CodePoets company.

> In this post I would like to introduce TypeScript, that in fact isn’t separated programming language, but some kind of JavaScript’s adaptation.

Author: Yes, I meant that it's a superset of JavaScript.

After reading this article, you should get to know what is the difference between JavaScript and TypeScript.

What is TypeScript?
It’s just a subset of JavaScript, created by Microsoft company in 2012 introducing additional functionalities and facilities.

> The creators of TypeScript needed a tool that would enhance JavaScript’s weaknesses.

Author: Right :D

They thought that JavaScript is not suited for writing larger applications.

> They’ve noticed an emerging problems related to scalability and maintenance of such programs and decided to create new tool with missing functionalities.

Reviewer 3: `new tool with missing functionalities` -> ` new tool with functionalities missing from JavaScript`

Author: ok

> It looks like they have succeeded.

Reviewer 3: Is this line necessary? :)

Author: It makes sense ;)

As proof, I would like to highlight the fact that TypeScript is the language in which people from Google wrote Angular2.

> And since Google collaborates with Microsoft - it means this tool must be really great.

Reviewer 3: Maybe it would be better to say that we do not need to worry about TypeScript getting deprecated in near future because big companies support it? (since Google collaborates with Microsoft - it means this tool must be really great) does not seem convincing to me.

Reviewer: I agree. I suggest toning it down a bit:

```suggestion
The fact that Google has decided to use a tool built by one its biggest competitors means it must have some merit.
```

Author: ok

What did I miss in JavaScript compared to Java?
Above all, static typing.
Obviously the JavaScript’s syntax is more concise than Java syntax.
It hides a lot of information that is desirable from a programmer’s point of view.
Let’s be honest and answer one question.
How many times we’ve been writing code in JavaScript and while wasting our time to look for information contained in our variable?

> This question implies second.

Reviewer 4: I thing it would be better if you simply add `one` at the end.
Like this `This question implies second one.`

Author: ok

> How would the possession of information about the type at the start would affect on our efficiency?

Reviewer 4: I think there should be no `on` in `affect on our efficiency`.

Author: ok

Easier code inspection, debugging, saving time while bugs investigation.
That's what TypeScript will provide you with static typing.
Easier work with the code from programmer’s point of view is fundamental.
But TypeScript gives us something more.
Thanks to static typing our IDE gains much wider possibilities of static code analysis.
Priceless help in programmer’s work are also IDE hints, which significantly enhance work speed and efficiency.

It sounds good, right?
Static typing makes life easier but is not enough to change our habits.

> What more can TypeScript give us?

Reviewer 3: What more -> what else

Author: ok

> A lot of people, who are using JavaScript, don’t like programming languages such as Java because of extended syntax related to types.

Author: ok

> TypeScript is a kind of a compromise between the complete lack of static typing and the extended syntax of statically typed languages.

Author: ok

> TypeScript’s syntax doesn’t require a type literally anywhere, thanks to type’s interference.

Reviewer 3: I think you meant `inference` and not `interference`.

Author: Good point!

> Type interference provides us the possibility in which we don’t have to define the types: variables initialization, setting default parameter values or determining the type returned by the function.

Reviewer 3: Interference -> inference

Author: Good point!

In above cases, type declaration is just not necessary, because the compiler can simply determine what type exists in a given place. 

> Comparing to Java language, existance of constructors inside the classes Is really natural, which is known to novice programmers.

Reviewer 4: `Is` -> `is`

> JavaScript constructors have a syntax and a purpose pretty different than in Java, but TypeScript constructors support injecting dependencies through constructor parameters what is so natural. 

Reviewer 4: Without `in` I think.
Something like this maybe `JavaScript constructors have a syntax and a purpose pretty different than Java ones`

Author: ok

> JavaScript constructors have a syntax and a purpose pretty different than in Java, but TypeScript constructors support injecting dependencies through constructor parameters what is so natural. 

Reviewer: Also, I think the article is targeted at JavaScript programmers, not Java programmers so comparing a JavaScript constructor with a TypeScript constructor would be more relevant.

> JavaScript constructors have a syntax and a purpose pretty different than in Java, but TypeScript constructors support injecting dependencies through constructor parameters what is so natural. 

Author: The only way to understand the way of thinking in this paragraph is to consider the introduction to this article. At the beginning I started by saying that TypeScript is easier than JavaScript for programmers who know Java syntax and functions.
And I meant exactly that - the method of using TypeScripts constructors is more intuitive and understandable for Java programmers.

I'm trying to write the same code in both languages.

JavaScript constructor serving to create new Car object:
```javascript
function Car(brand, color) {
    this.age = 0;
    this.brand = brand;
    this.color = color;

    this.print = function() {
        console.log(this.brand + 'color' + this.color);
    }
}
```

TypeScript constructor inside the class serving to injecting dependencies:
```typescript
class ClassName {
    constructor(private param: number) {}
}
```

> Many companies give up the division to frontend/backend developers.

Author: ok

As a result, the teams are more flexible, because each team member can work on each part of the application separately.
Similarities between TypeScript and programming languages such as Java/C++ makes programmer’s work easier, because switching between two languages is less painful.

> To sum up, from my point of view, TypeScript combines JavaScript and facilities from other programming languages, which makes it easier to use the structures and syntax of other languages.

Author: ok

The creators of TypeScript needed a tool that would enhance JavaScript’s weaknesses.
They thought that JavaScript was not suited for writing larger applications.
They noticed emerging problems related to scalability and maintenance of such programs and decided to create a new tool with functionalities missing from JavaScript.

Did they succeed?
I think so.
As proof, I would like to highlight the fact that TypeScript is the language in which people from Google wrote Angular2.
The fact that Google decided to use a tool built by one of its biggest competitors means that it must have some merit.

##### Static Typing
What did I miss in JavaScript compared to Java?
Above all, static typing.
Obviously, JavaScript’s syntax is more concise than Java syntax.
It hides a lot of information that is desirable from a programmer’s point of view.

Let’s be honest and answer one question.
How many times we’ve been writing code in JavaScript and wasting our time looking for information contained in our variable?
This question implies the second answer.
How would the possession of information about the type at the start would affect our efficiency?

> Easier code inspection, debugging, and saving time while bugs investigation.

Reviewer 3: I think that comma is unnecessary here.

Reviewer: It's a [serial comma](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Serial_comma). Opinions differ on whether it's a good style or not but it's not incorrect.

TypeScript’s syntax doesn’t require a type in literally every location, thanks to typing inference.
Type inference provides us the possibility in which we don’t have to define the types: variables initialization, setting default parameter values, or determining the type returned by the function.
In the above cases, type declaration is just not necessary, because the compiler can simply determine what type exists in a given place.

##### Constructors
Compared to Java, the existence of constructors inside the classes is really natural, which is known to novice programmers.
JavaScript constructors have a syntax and a purpose pretty different from Java’s.
Additionally, in JavaScript, methods must be added to the prototype chain and not the class directly.
Using prototypes is difficult to understand, but the object-oriented approach in TypeScript is more natural and understandable.

JavaScript constructor serving to create new Car object:
```javascript
function Car(brand, color) {
  this.age = 0;
  this.brand = brand;
  this.color = color;
}

Car.prototype.print = function print() {

>   console.log(this.brand + 'color' + this.color);

Reviewer: Fixed.

}
```

TypeScript constructor inside the class:
```typescript
class Car {
  private age: number;
  private brand: string;
  private color: string;

  constructor(age: number, brand: string, color: string) {
    this.age = age;
    this.brand = brand;
    this.color = color;
  }

  print() {

>     console.log(this.brand + 'color' + this.color);

Reviewer 5: There is the same mistake as above
